Text on screen: STEMscopes Florida, 2.P 13.4 ForceandMotionQC 1
Force and motion. In this
activity, the students will use three different sized marbles to
demonstrate how a greater force applied will move a cup further.
(Visual: The video shows how the plastic cup moves
after interacting with marbles of different sizes).
For this explore activity,
students will need the following materials.
Text on screen: Scissors, Modeling clay, Rolling pin,
Paper plate, Plastic knife.
Preparation. Flip the
cup upside down and cut half circle opening at the
bottom of each cup.
Each group will set up a ramp with the cup
upside down on the ramp.
The cup should be positioned at the lowest end of the ramp.
(Visual: The ramp is installed.
The cut off side of the cup is placed at
the end of the inclined plane).
Students will then predict in their
journal which marbel will move the cup the longest distance
and which one they think will move it the shortest.
(Visual: The form for filling out the results
of the experiment is shown).
Groups will take turns placing each marble at the highest
point of the ramp and releasing it.
They will then place a sticker on the spot
where the cup moved.
(Visual: The sticker is attached at the point where the cut
part of the cup stopped).
They will then measure the distance moved,
making sure to use a different color dot each time.
For differentiation, students can measure the distance in centimeters with
a ruler or with paper clips.
(Visual: The measuring process
is shown with a ruler).
Repeat this process
with each sized marble. Using their student journals,
students will record the distance moved and sketch what happened
to each of the three marbles.
(Visual: Filling out the
form with sketching and writing the measurements is shown for three distances.
The logo "STEM Florida" is shown).